feat: [SSCA-847]: SBOM generation and Ingestion for Snyk and Trivy (#4366)
harness/developer-hub: docs/software-supply-chain-assurance/sbom/generate-sbom-snyk.md

---
title: Ingest SBOM from Snyk into SSCA
description: You can easily ingest from any scanner that can generate an SBOM.

> sidebar_label: Ingest SBOM from Snyk Open Source & Container

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sidebar_label: Ingest SBOM from Snyk
```

sidebar_position: 30
---

This workflow describes how to ingest Snyk scan results into a Harness pipeline. STO supports the following scan approaches for the following Snyk products:

- Snyk Container SBOM via an ingestion workflow
- Snyk Open Source SBOM via [STO Snyk step](docs/security-testing-orchestration/sto-techref-category/snyk/snyk-scans#snyk-repository-orchestration-example)

# Generating and ingesting a Snyk Container SBOM

A [Software Bill of Materials (SBOM)](https://cyclonedx.org/capabilities/sbom/) is a list of all the components, libraries, and other dependencies used in a software application. Harness SSCA can ingest [JSON SPDX](https://spdx.dev/learn/overview/) or [CycloneDx](https://cyclonedx.org/specification/overview/) formatted SBOM from any tool that can generate these report formats.

> :::info

Reviewer: I understand why you included this note, but I don't think it is necessary here. The page is already clear that it is for Snyk. The presence of this note makes me think Snyk isn't supported in any capacity, when in reality you are saying that Synk Container doesn't have built-in support.

I suggest removing the note from this Snyk page. However, the original note on the [Ingest SBOM into SSCA page](https://6567bce976ceac23c8beb33a--harness-developer.netlify.app/docs/software-supply-chain-assurance/sbom/ingest-sbom-data) needs to be edited since there is no longer a generic "Generate SBOM from any scan step" topic (it is now the Blackduck topic).

```
:::info

Use this configuration for scanners that don't have built-in support in SSCA. For scanners with built-in support you can:

* [Use the SSCA Orchestration step to generate SBOM.](./generate-sbom.md)
* [Ingest results from a Blackduck STO scan step.](./generate-sbom-blackduck.md).
* [Ingest results from an Aqua Trivy STO scan step.](./generate-sbom-aqua-trivy.md)

For a list of all SSCA-supported scanners, go to [What's supported for STO](/docs/security-testing-orchestration/whats-supported).

:::

2. Create two [Harness file secrets](/docs/platform/secrets/add-file-secrets), one for the private key file and one for the public key file.
3. Create a [Harness text secret](/docs/platform/Secrets/add-use-text-secrets) to store the password for the private key.

## Configure your pipeline to ingest SBOM

1. In your Harness pipeline, go to the stage where you want to ingest the SBOM, and select the **Overview** tab.
2. In **Shared Paths**, enter a path to a location where your SBOM can be stored on the build machine, such as `/shared/customer_artifacts`.

   ![](../../security-testing-orchestration/use-sto/static/ingesting-issues-from-other-scanners-00.png)

3. Add a step to your stage that generates an SBOM, such as a **Run**, **Plugin**, or **GitHub Action** step.

   For example, this **Run** step uses [Synk](https://docs.snyk.io/snyk-cli/commands/container-sbom) to generate an SBOM.

   ![](../static/ingesting-sbom-from-other-scanners-03.png)

   ```
   snyk container sbom --format=spdx2.3+json \
    ubuntu:22.04 > /shared/customer_artifacts/result.spdx.json

>    ```

Reviewer: The codeblock loses context when it's after the image.

~~~suggestion
   For example, you could use the following command in a **Run** step to generate a Snyk SBOM.
   
   ```
   snyk container sbom --format=spdx2.3+json \
    ubuntu:22.04 > /shared/customer_artifacts/result.spdx.json
   ```

   ![](../static/ingesting-sbom-from-other-scanners-03.png)
~~~

> 4. If your SBOM tool can't output directly to your **Shared Path**, then add commands or a **Run** step to copy the SBOM into the directory specified in **Shared Paths**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. If your SBOM tool can't output directly to your **Shared Path**, then add commands or a **Run** step to copy the SBOM into the directory specified in **Shared Paths**.
```

I would modify this step to explain how it would apply to Snyk Container. Can Snyk Container output directly to the Shared Path?

5. Add an [SSCA Orchestration step](./generate-sbom.md#add-the-ssca-orchestration-step) configured to ingest the SBOM:
   * Set the **Step Mode** to **Ingestion**.

>    * For **SBOM File Path**, enter the path to the SBOM file generated by your SBOM tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * For **SBOM File Path**, enter the path to the SBOM file generated by Snyk Container.
```

   * **Private Key:** The [Harness file secret](/docs/platform/secrets/add-file-secrets) containing the private key to use to sign the attestation.
   * **Password:** The [Harness text secret](/docs/platform/Secrets/add-use-text-secrets) containing the password for the private key.

   ![](../static/ingesting-sbom-from-other-scanners-02.png)

:::info ECR and GCR repos

If you're using Docker-compliant ECR or GCR repositories, you must:

1. Configure your [Docker Registry connector](/docs/platform/Connectors/Cloud-providers/ref-cloud-providers/docker-registry-connector-settings-reference) as a valid [artifact source](/docs/continuous-delivery/x-platform-cd-features/services/artifact-sources).
   * For ECR, go to [Use Docker Registry for ECR](/docs/continuous-delivery/x-platform-cd-features/services/artifact-sources#amazon-elastic-container-registry-ecr).
   * For GCR, go to [Use Docker Registry for GCR](/docs/continuous-delivery/x-platform-cd-features/services/artifact-sources#google-container-registry-gcr)
2. Use the full URI for the **Image** in your **SSCA Orchestration** step, such as `1234567890.dkr.ecr.REGION.amazonaws.com/IMAGE_NAME:TAG`.

:::

> # Generating an  Snyk Open Source SBOM via an STO Snyk Step

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Generate and ingest a Snyk Open Source SBOM
```

Harness SSCA can ingest SBOM generated from STO scanner steps, such as the [Snyk STO step](/docs/security-testing-orchestration/sto-techref-category/snyk/snyk-scans#snyk-repository-orchestration-example), if the resulting SBOM is in JSON [SPDX](https://spdx.dev/learn/overview/) or [CycloneDx](https://cyclonedx.org/specification/overview/) format.

This topic explains how to configure a pipeline to ingest SBOM generated by an STO scanner step. It uses the Snyk STO step as an example.

You can also [generate SBOM using built-in SBOM tools](./generate-sbom.md) or [ingest SBOM from any SBOM tool](./ingest-sbom-data.md).

## Generate a key pair

Keys are used to sign and verify attestations.

1. Generate a public and private key pair. For example, you can use [Cosign](https://docs.sigstore.dev/key_management/signing_with_self-managed_keys/) to generate key pairs.
2. Create two [Harness file secrets](/docs/platform/secrets/add-file-secrets), one for the private key file and one for the public key file.
3. Create a [Harness text secret](/docs/platform/Secrets/add-use-text-secrets) to store the password for the private key.

## Configure the STO scan step to generate SBOM

> Configure an STO scanner step, such as the [Snyk STO step](/docs/security-testing-orchestration/sto-techref-category/snyk/snyk-scans#snyk-repository-orchestration-example, and make sure you select **Generate SBOM** and the **SBOM Format**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure the [Snyk STO scanner step](/docs/security-testing-orchestration/sto-techref-category/snyk/snyk-scans#snyk-repository-orchestration-example), and make sure you select **Generate SBOM** and the **SBOM Format**.
```
